---
title: Git usuage
date: 2020-03-20 12:36:00
tags: Git
categories: Tutorial
---

 ### *Git commands*
 1. When want to change the commit, use `amend` command.   
 `git commit --amend -m "Your comment"`  
 `git push origin HEAD -f` 
 
 <!-- more -->
 
2. Jump back to the last commit using a `commit-id` and push it to the remote branch. ```  
`git reset --hard f145f6f`  
`git push origin -f` 


3.  Undo the last commit  
`git reset --soft HEAD~1`  
If you don't want to keep these changes, simply use the `--hard `flag. Be sure to only do this when you're sure you don't need these changes anymore.  
`git reset --hard HEAD~1`


4. Remove the merge just now  
`git fetch origin`  
`git reset --hard origin`


5. git reverte  
Fetch data from remote repo  
`git fetch`  
`git checkout origin/master datasets/file`
 
 
6. Create branch   
`git pull`  
`git checkout -branch branchName`  
`git push origin branchName`

7. Delete branch from local and remote   
`git branch -delete branchName`  
`git push origin --delete branchName`


8. Resolve Conflicts  
Step 1. Checkout the source branch and merge in the changes from the target branch.  
`git merge --abort`  (If exist uncommited files)   
`git checkout feature/branchName`   
`git pull origin master`  
Step 2. After the merge conflicts are resolved, stage the changes accordingly, commit the changes and push.  
`git commit`  
`git push origin HEAD`

9. Rename remote branch
Step 1a. Rename your local branch.
If you are on the branch you want to rename:
`git branch -m new-name`

Step 1b. If you are on a different branch:
`git branch -m old-name new-name`

Step 2. Delete the old-name remote branch and push the new-name local branch.
`git push origin :old-name new-name`

Step 3. Reset the upstream branch for the new-name local branch.
`git push origin -u new-name`

---
 ### **Git short command** 
1. Show commit history   
`git reflog`

2. Show graphical history viewer   
`gitk`

---